---
title: "Data Analyst"
collection: experience
type: "Full Time"
permalink: /experience/2023-progoti-systems-ltd
venue: "Progoti Systems Ltd., Data & BI, Engineering"
date: 2023-10-31
location: "Banani, Dhaka, Bangladesh"
tenure: "28th Oct 2020 - 31 Oct 2023"
---

I worked as a Data Analyst at Progoti Systems Ltd., where I was actively involved in analyzing and interpreting data for their Data & BI Engineering team. During my employment, I contributed to many projects, and created visually engaging data dashboards, Optimized Data Processes, Implemented Data Security Measures, Contributed to Project Success.

**Products:** SureCash, TallyPay, TallyKhata

**Team:** Data & Business Intelligence (BI)

**Department:** Engineering

**Achievement & Responsibilities**
- Conducted in-depth analysis on intricate datasets to uncover trends and patterns.
- Executed and managed campaigns, including Loyalty Programs.
- Presented data visualizations for informed decisions (15+ Dashboards, 150+ Charts)
- Implemented techniques for Customer Journey Management and Mapping to enhance and optimize the overall customer experience.
- Designed and implemented algorithms to enhance the quality of decision-making processes.
- Prepared and compiled Trust Cum Settlement Report for Bangladesh Bank.
- Conducted database audits for Bangladesh Bank.
- Performed reconciliation processes to ensure accuracy and consistency in financial data.
- Generated and submitted reports to Bangladesh Bank in the specified Rationalized Input Template (RIT) format, ensuring accurate and standardized data presentation.
- Compiled and presented comprehensive Income Reports, offering detailed insights into financial performance and revenue generation.
- Conducted Yearly Bank Closing procedures, ensuring accurate financial records and compliance with regulatory requirements.
- International Monetary Fund (IMF)
- Financial Access Survey (FAS)
- Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD)
- Growth Reports
- Project: Padma Multipurpose Bridge, PESP, BSFIC, SWD, Super QR
- Implemented automation using Python and Google APIs
- Implemented dimension and fact tables
- Designed and established a Unified Data Analytics Platform (UDAP), ETL Jobs
- Developed a Database Audit System leveraging Triggers to ensure data security
- Designed and implemented Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
- Established a robust Column Level Security (CLS) system
- Table Partitioning, Sharding, Indexing, Database Performance Improvement
- Successfully orchestrated the migration of a substantial 10TB data set to AWS RDS
- Decomposed a normalized database into two separate databases
- Developed a Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR) mechanism on Master-Slave architecture to ensure the database's resilience



